---
layout: post.njk
title: Initial Design Phase
---

The first thing I decided to tackle was getting some switch mount plates, as in my
head they'd be the least effected by requirement changes I might make down the line.
Since my design is only slightly modified from a regular 
[Corne](https://github.com/foostan/crkbd), I thought maybe I could just modify an
existing STL file and move the 1.25u switch slot down to a 1u switch slot.

After some trial and error I discovered that STL files aren't that easy to modify, and
unfortunately, all the STL files I could find on Corne switch plates were made to use
a 1.25u thumb key. So, seeing as I might as well, I decided to remake a switch plate
design myself.

First I looked for a suitable CAD software. I wanted something that wasn't web based,
primarily so I can have access to my files, and as I was running Linux I first tried 
using [FreeCAD](https://www.freecad.org/), which
seemed to work great, except that I didn't know how to use it properly and it kept crashing
on my machine for some mysterious reason, despite people saying the new version was way
more stable. As of writing I'll just blame that on the non standard setup I had
combined with my system specs not being the best for CAD work and the weird things
I was telling the program to do.

Looking for more lightweight options I found [OpenSCAD](https://openscad.org/), a
script based CAD modelling software which seemed to work way better on my machine.
Though at the time I couldn't easily understand how to smooth things, so I
got around it by doing the post-processing work in FreeCAD.

While there were other options, like the online tool [OnShape](https://cad.onshape.com/),
or the Python based [build123d](build123d.readthedocs.io/), I settled on just using
OpenSCAD for its straight-forwardness.

After a few days of learning and making a messy but useable switch plate design, I went
to print them using a 3D print service I found online. And it all seems to go well, a
week went by and the plates arrived! Bent... but "alright I can still make this work" I
thought, and went on with the next steps of the design, since worst case scenario I just
drop the switch plate and make my keyboard not use it.

